README.md, before:

# Podcast Recording Application

An application for creating podcasts with a human host and AI companion.

## Features

- Record human audio segments
- Generate AI responses with customizable prompts
- Convert AI text to speech using Elevenlabs
- Edit transcripts and re-generate audio
- Parallel display of draft text, audio, and transcript
- Transcription via AssemblyAI

## Tech Stack

- Backend: Python, FastAPI
- Frontend: React, TypeScript
- Audio Processing: FFmpeg
- AI Models: OpenAI GPT-4, Elevenlabs
- Deployment: Docker

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+ 
- Node.js 18+
- FFmpeg (for audio processing)
- API keys for OpenAI, ElevenLabs, and AssemblyAI

### Setup Environment

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd podcast-recording
```

2. Create and configure environment files:
```bash
# Copy sample environment files
cp backend/.env.sample backend/.env
cp frontend/.env.sample frontend/.env

# Edit the .env files with your API keys
```

3. Run the setup script (simplest method):
```bash
chmod +x run_dev.sh
./run_dev.sh
```

### Running with uv (Recommended)

This project uses [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv), a fast Python package installer and resolver.

#### First time setup:

```bash
# Install uv if you don't have it
pip install uv

# Set up the backend environment
cd backend
uv sync

# Set up the frontend
cd ../frontend
npm install
```

#### Running the application:

```bash
# Run the backend with uv
cd backend
uv run -- uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000

# In another terminal, run the frontend
cd frontend
npm start
```

#### Managing dependencies:

```bash
# Add a new dependency
cd backend
uv add package_name

# Remove a dependency
uv remove package_name

# Update a dependency
uv lock --upgrade-package package_name
```

### Alternative: Running with Docker

```bash
# Start both backend and frontend
docker-compose up

# Or build and start
docker-compose up --build
```

## API Documentation

Once the application is running, you can access the API documentation at:
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8000/api/docs
- ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/api/redoc

## Usage

1. Open the application in your browser at http://localhost:3000
2. Create a new podcast episode
3. Add segments (human recordings or AI responses)
4. Edit transcriptions and generate speech as needed
5. Export the completed podcast

## Configuration

The application can be configured using environment variables in the `.env` files:

### Backend Configuration
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`: Your OpenAI API key
- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY`: Your ElevenLabs API key
- `ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY`: Your AssemblyAI API key
- `LLM_MODEL`: The OpenAI model to use (default: gpt-4o)
- `ELEVENLABS_VOICE_ID`: Voice ID for speech synthesis

### Frontend Configuration
- `REACT_APP_API_URL`: URL for the backend API 




## ARCHITECTURE

The Video processing is done:

- Background removal , trying with the [MediaPipe](https://ai.google.dev/edge/mediapipe/solutions/guide) project. Looking at using [Selfie Segmentation](https://github.com/google-ai-edge/mediapipe/blob/master/docs/solutions/selfie_segmentation.md) to find the human in the prominent foreground (which will be me).

Commit message:

Add Railway deployment configuration with ephemeral environments
Backend changes:
- Added railway.toml for Railway service configuration
- Added /health endpoint for Railway health checks
- Configured Dockerfile-based deployment with auto-restart policies

Frontend changes:
- Added railway.toml for Railway service configuration
- Configured Dockerfile-based deployment
- Set up health check on root path

Documentation:
- Created comprehensive RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md guide
- Updated README.md with Railway deployment section
- Added .railwayignore to exclude dev files from deployment

Features:
- Support for ephemeral PR environments
- Automatic deployments on push to main
- Health monitoring and auto-restart
- Environment variable configuration templates
- Monorepo setup with separate backend/frontend services

README.md, after:

# Podcast Recording Application

An application for creating podcasts with a human host and AI companion.

## Features

- Record human audio segments
- Generate AI responses with customizable prompts
- Convert AI text to speech using Elevenlabs
- Edit transcripts and re-generate audio
- Parallel display of draft text, audio, and transcript
- Transcription via AssemblyAI

## Tech Stack

- Backend: Python, FastAPI
- Frontend: React, TypeScript
- Audio Processing: FFmpeg
- AI Models: OpenAI GPT-4, Elevenlabs
- Deployment: Docker

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+ 
- Node.js 18+
- FFmpeg (for audio processing)
- API keys for OpenAI, ElevenLabs, and AssemblyAI

### Setup Environment

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd podcast-recording
```

2. Create and configure environment files:
```bash
# Copy sample environment files
cp backend/.env.sample backend/.env
cp frontend/.env.sample frontend/.env

# Edit the .env files with your API keys
```

3. Run the setup script (simplest method):
```bash
chmod +x run_dev.sh
./run_dev.sh
```

### Running with uv (Recommended)

This project uses [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv), a fast Python package installer and resolver.

#### First time setup:

```bash
# Install uv if you don't have it
pip install uv

# Set up the backend environment
cd backend
uv sync

# Set up the frontend
cd ../frontend
npm install
```

#### Running the application:

```bash
# Run the backend with uv
cd backend
uv run -- uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000

# In another terminal, run the frontend
cd frontend
npm start
```

#### Managing dependencies:

```bash
# Add a new dependency
cd backend
uv add package_name

# Remove a dependency
uv remove package_name

# Update a dependency
uv lock --upgrade-package package_name
```

### Alternative: Running with Docker

```bash
# Start both backend and frontend
docker-compose up

# Or build and start
docker-compose up --build
```

## Deployment

### Railway (Recommended for Production)

This project is configured for easy deployment to Railway with ephemeral environments for PR previews.

**Quick Deploy:**
1. Click the "Deploy on Railway" button (or follow the [detailed guide](RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md))
2. Configure environment variables for backend and frontend
3. Both services will be deployed with public URLs
4. PR deployments are automatically created for each pull request

See [RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md](RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md) for complete deployment instructions, including:
- Step-by-step deployment guide
- Environment variable configuration
- Ephemeral PR environments setup
- Custom domain configuration
- Troubleshooting tips

### Other Deployment Options

The included Dockerfiles make it easy to deploy to any platform that supports Docker:
- AWS ECS/Fargate
- Google Cloud Run
- Azure Container Instances
- DigitalOcean App Platform
- Fly.io

## API Documentation

Once the application is running, you can access the API documentation at:
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8000/api/docs
- ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/api/redoc

## Usage

1. Open the application in your browser at http://localhost:3000
2. Create a new podcast episode
3. Add segments (human recordings or AI responses)
4. Edit transcriptions and generate speech as needed
5. Export the completed podcast

## Configuration

The application can be configured using environment variables in the `.env` files:

### Backend Configuration
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`: Your OpenAI API key
- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY`: Your ElevenLabs API key
- `ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY`: Your AssemblyAI API key
- `LLM_MODEL`: The OpenAI model to use (default: gpt-4o)
- `ELEVENLABS_VOICE_ID`: Voice ID for speech synthesis

### Frontend Configuration
- `REACT_APP_API_URL`: URL for the backend API 




## ARCHITECTURE

The Video processing is done:

- Background removal , trying with the [MediaPipe](https://ai.google.dev/edge/mediapipe/solutions/guide) project. Looking at using [Selfie Segmentation](https://github.com/google-ai-edge/mediapipe/blob/master/docs/solutions/selfie_segmentation.md) to find the human in the prominent foreground (which will be me).
